Adds new UMIPs for Optimistic Oracle, Perpetual, and EMP Upgrade (#187)
UMAprotocol/UMIPs: UMIPs/umip-54.md

## Headers
| UMIP-54    |                                                                                                                                          |
|------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| UMIP Title | Approve New EMP Financial Contract Template              |
| Authors    | John Shutt (john@umaproject.org) |
| Status     | Draft                                                                                                                             |
| Created    | February 16, 2021                                                                                                                           |

## Summary
This UMIP will have the effect of introducing a new ExpiringMultiParty contract template that allows for optimistic expiry price settlement. A description of the optimistic oracle can be found in UMIP-52.

> The template also allows deployers to use custom financial product libraries to transform the price, the identifier passed to the optimistic oracle or DVM, and the collateralization requirement. Examples of financial product libraries can be found in this [directory](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/core/contracts/financial-templates/common/financial-product-libraries). (If you do not want to use a financial product library, you can pass the zero address `0x0`.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The template also allows deployers to use custom financial product libraries to transform the price, the identifier passed to the optimistic oracle or DVM, and the collateralization requirement. Examples of financial product libraries can be found in this [directory](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/tree/master/packages/core/contracts/financial-templates/common/financial-product-libraries). (If you do not want to use a financial product library, you can pass the zero address `0x0`.)
```

> Additionally, the token precision matches the collateral precision for contracts deployed with this template, reducing the complexity of price calculation and the potential for errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, the token precision matches the collateral precision for contracts deployed with this template, which means the identifiers used with this template don't need to match the decimals of the collateral currency.
```

## Motivation & Rationale

> This UMIP will allow optimistic settlement of expiry price through the new optimistic oracle, with a liveness window for disputes. This puts less demand on the DVM, which only comes into the picture in the event of a dispute. It also speeds up the settlement of expiry prices significantly, making the protocol more efficient.

Reviewer 2: Looks like this section was copy-pasted. I'm guessing this still needs to be written.

Author: Whoops! Fixing these sections.

Author: Nope, I think this is correct! I was explaining the rationale of the EMP upgrade, which is tied into the coinciding launch of the optimistic oracle.

Reviewer 2: Ha, for some reason I was thinking I was looking at the perp one. LGTM!

> ## Technical Specification

Reviewer 2: Same for this section.

Author: I think this is correct. It's just fairly similar to the Perpetual, differing in the parameters.

Reviewer 2: Same as above, I thought this was the perp -- looks good!

To accomplish this upgrade, a new financial contract template must be deployed.

After deployment, this new `ExpiringMultiPartyCreator` contract should be approved as a ContractCreator in the Registry. The optimistic oracle described in UMIP-52 will need to be deployed, and the DVM will need to be upgraded to handle ancillary data. Bots should also be updated to handle the new EMP template.

Note: the voters only vote for the approval -- the deployment has no effect on the protocol until added as a ContractCreator.

A deployment of an expiring multi-party synthetic token is defined by the following parameters.

- uint256 expirationTimestamp
- address collateralAddress
- bytes32 priceFeedIdentifier
- string syntheticName
- string syntheticSymbol
- FixedPoint.Unsigned collateralRequirement
- FixedPoint.Unsigned disputeBondPercentage
- FixedPoint.Unsigned sponsorDisputeRewardPercentage
- FixedPoint.Unsigned disputerDisputeRewardPercentage
- FixedPoint.Unsigned minSponsorTokens
- uint256 withdrawalLiveness
- uint256 liquidationLiveness
- address financialProductLibraryAddress

## Implementation

> Please see this [directory](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/tree/master/core/contracts/financial-templates/expiring-multiparty). The directory contains both the [implementation](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/core/contracts/financial-templates/expiring-multiparty/ExpiringMultiParty.sol) of the `ExpiringMultiParty` template and the [deployer contract](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/core/contracts/financial-templates/expiring-multiparty/ExpiringMultiPartyCreator.sol) that will be registered with the DVM to allow users to deploy their own `ExpiringMultiParty` contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please see this [directory](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/tree/master/packages/core/contracts/financial-templates/expiring-multiparty). The directory contains both the [implementation](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/packages/core/contracts/financial-templates/expiring-multiparty/ExpiringMultiParty.sol) of the `ExpiringMultiParty` template and the [deployer contract](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/packages/core/contracts/financial-templates/expiring-multiparty/ExpiringMultiPartyCreator.sol) that will be registered with the DVM to allow users to deploy their own `ExpiringMultiParty` contract.
```

> Please see this [directory](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/tree/master/packages/core/contracts/financial-templates/expiring-multiparty). The directory contains both the [implementation](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/packages/core/contracts/financial-templates/expiring-multiparty/ExpiringMultiParty.sol) of the `ExpiringMultiParty` template and the [deployer contract](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/packages/core/contracts/financial-templates/expiring-multiparty/ExpiringMultiPartyCreator.sol) that will be registered with the DVM to allow users to deploy their own `ExpiringMultiParty` contract.

Reviewer 2: Same for this section.

Author: I think this is correct, as well. It links to the implementations of the new EMP creator and template.

Reviewer 2: See above -- LGTM!
